This is the Shop System is Based of the Shop System from Oldenburg's Hackspace Mainframe.
After Several Years of using a small Team from the Do It Yourserlf Werkstatt Wilhelmshaven 
and make it easier usable for Others. A lot of improvements has been done. Now there sould 
be neraly no Hardcoded Stuff with Oldenburg Context. All Properties are set in a Config file.

The software has been developed as a credit based system for members of the
hackspace. The system depends on a cheap serial barcode scanner, which is used
to establish user sessions (by scanning CODE39 based user codes) and buying
products (by scanning their EAN). The members receive an invoice at the end of
the month, which is also send to the hackspace's treasurer for further processing.

Since the user barcodes do not contain any advanced authentication mechanism,
security is established by sending daily mails in addition to the monthly
invoice mail. The daily mail (which is only sent if something has been bought)
lists all products bought by the member on this day and the current total sum
for the month.

The system provides the following features:
 * time shifted daily mails (08:00-07:59 of the following day), so that there
   is a lower chance of purchases from one visit being split over two mails.
 * native rendering of PDF invoices using Cairo (fast & lightweight)
 * invoice mails are sent using text/plain and text/html
 * support for sending a database backup to a mail address
 * curses based user interface
 * basic audio support

The system administration is done using a simple web interface, which provides
support for the following tasks:
 * adding information about new products
 * restocking products
 * changing selling prices of products
 * updating the user database by importing a userlist.csv
   (regularly generated by our treasurer)

The system consists of multiple daemons written in Vala, which communicate
with each other using DBus.

Build Dependencies:
 * apt install build-essential valac libesmtp-dev libgpgme11-dev libncursesw5-dev libncurses5-dev libgee-0.8-dev libgmime-2.6-dev libarchive-dev libgstreamer1.0-dev libgtk2.0-dev librsvg2-dev libsoup2.4-dev libsqlite3-dev libpango1.0-dev libssl-dev dbus-x11 mdbus2 policykit-1 git fonts-lmodern sqlite3

Additional runtime dependencies:
 * apt install gstreamer1.0-alsa gstreamer1.0-plugins-base vbetool mosquitto-clients

## Installation

You can install to different location or use a different username,
but you need to modify a few things.

### Git Setup

 * adduser "shop" with homedir in /home/shop
 * clone git repository into /home/shop/serial-barcode-scanner

### Build the Software

 * cd /home/shop/serial-barcode-scanner
 * ./configure
 * make shop.db
 * make

### DBus Configuration 

 * cd dbus
 * make
 * sudo make install

### Systemd 

 * cd systemd
 * sudo make install

### Configuration 

 * mv example.cfg config.cfg
 * edit config.cfg

### Database

 * Create user
 `sqlite3 shop.db "INSERT INTO users (id, email, firstname, lastname) VALUES (-1, 'vorstand@diyww.de', 'Vorstand', 'DIYWW');"`
  `sqlite3 shop.db "INSERT INTO users (id, email, firstname, lastname) VALUES (0, 'shop-gast@diyww.de', 'GAST', 'GAST');"`
  `sqlite3 shop.db "INSERT INTO users (id, email, firstname, lastname) VALUES (1, 'test@tester', 'Firstname', 'Lastname');"`
 * Setup user password
   `mdbus2 -s io.mainframe.shopsystem.Database /io/mainframe/shopsystem/database io.mainframe.shopsystem.Database.SetUserPassword 1 "password"`
   `sqlite3 shop.db "UPDATE authentication set superuser = 1,auth_users = 1, auth_products = 1,auth_cashbox = 1 where user = 1";`
 * Demo Data
 `sqlite3 shop.db "INSERT INTO categories (name) VALUES ('Getränke')";`
 `sqlite3 shop.db "INSERT INTO supplier (name,city,postal_code,street,phone,website) VALUES ('Demo Lieferant','Musterstadt','12345','Musterstraße 5','+49 1234 56789','https://www.ktt.de')";`
 
### Display on / off via MQTT
You can turn your Display on an off via MQTT
configure the MQTT-Settings in your config-file
Yout can define custom massages for display on an display off, set your BROKER and your TOPIC

## Customize Your Shop

Edit the Logo in the logo.txt File.
A helpful tool you will found here [http://patorjk.com/software/taag/](http://patorjk.com/software/taag/)
